RPM (Redhat Package Manager)
YUM (Yellowdog Updater, Modified)
DNF - a rewrite of YUM based on libsolv


## YUM history

[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellow_Dog_Linux)

**Yellow Dog Linux (YDL)** is a discontinued free and open-source operating
system for high-performance computing on multi-core processor computer
architectures, focusing on GPU systems and computers using the POWER7
processor. The original developer was Terra Soft Solutions, which was acquired
by Fixstars in October 2008.

Yellow Dog Linux was first released in the spring of 1999 for Apple Macintosh
PowerPC-based computers. The most recent version, Yellow Dog Linux 7, was
released on August 6, 2012. Yellow Dog Linux lent(借给) its name to the popular
YUM Linux software updater, derived from **YDL's YUP (Yellowdog UPdater)** and thus
called **Yellowdog Updater, Modified.**

---

[link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yum_(software))

The original package manager, Yellowdog UPdater (YUP) was developed in
1999-2001 by Dan Burcaw, Bryan Stillwell, Stephen Edie, and Troy Bengegerdes at
Terra Soft Solutions (under the leadership of then CEO Kai Staats) as a
back-end engine for a graphical installer of Yellow Dog Linux.

As a full rewrite of YUP, YUM evolved primarily to update and manage Red Hat
Linux systems used at the Duke University Department of Physics by Seth Vidal
and Michael Stenner. Vidal continued to contribute to YUM until his death in a
Durham, North Carolina bicycle accident on 8 July 2013.

In 2003 Robert G. Brown at Duke published documentation for YUM. Subsequent
adopters included Fedora, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, CentOS, and many other
RPM-based Linux distributions, including Yellow Dog Linux itself, where YUM
replaced the original YUP utility — last updated on SourceForge in 2001.] By
2005, it was estimated to be in use on over half of the Linux market, and by
2007 YUM was considered the "tool of choice" for RPM-based Linux distributions.

YUM aimed to address both the perceived deficiencies in the old APT-RPM, and
restrictions of the Red Hat up2date package management tool. YUM superseded
up2date in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 and later. Some authors refer to YUM as
the Yellowdog Update Manager, or suggest that "Your Update Manager" would be
more appropriate. A basic knowledge of YUM is often included as a requirement
for Linux system-administrator certification. The GNU General Public License of
YUM allows the free and open-source software to be freely distributed and
modified without any royalty, if other terms of the license are honored.

While yum was originally created for Linux, it has been ported to a number of
other operating systems including AIX, IBM i, and ArcaOS.




DPKG(Debian Package Manager) APT(Advanced Package Tool)
