debian 是 systemctl status networking.service

centos 是 systemctl status network.service

## /etc/resolv.conf 文件

Centos7:

    Generated by NetworkManager         ???

    nameserver 223.5.5.5

    但是

    rpm -qf /etc/resolv.conf
    file /etc/resolv.conf is not owned by any package

Raspbian:

    Generated by resolvconf             ???

    nameserver 192.168.1.1¬

    apt-file search /etc/resolv.conf    // 得知是 debian-lan-config 这个软件包的文件
    apt-cache show debian-lan-config
    dpkg -l | grep debian-lan-config    // 提示没有安装，这。。。

## 一些文件

1. /proc/net/nf_conntrack

    连接跟踪文件，它里面的内容由 nf_conntrack.ko 模块写入。在 iptables 中使用
    -m state 选项时，iptables 不但加载 xt_state.ko 模块，且 nf_conntrack.ko 模
    块也会被加载进来。

    https://www.iteye.com/blog/ciaos-2160416

## 0.0.0.0

The IP address 0.0.0.0 is used to represent a non-routable **meta-address**,
meaning that it doesn't refer to a specific device or network but rather to
"all networks" or "any network". This is also known as the default route or
default gateway. When a device has an IP address of 0.0.0.0, it means that it
is listening on all available network interfaces, allowing it to receive
packets from any source. This is useful in situations where a device needs to
be able to communicate with multiple networks simultaneously.

## when gateway is 0.0.0.0 , what does it mean

When the gateway is set to 0.0.0.0, it means that there is no specific gateway
defined for the network interface, and the system will use the default gateway
to route traffic. The default gateway is typically the gateway address of the
router that the device is directly connected to. By setting the gateway to
0.0.0.0, the device will use the default gateway to forward traffic to remote
networks.

## "Genmask" stands for "netmask" ? why called Genmask ?

"Genmask" stands for "netmask." The reason for using "Genmask" instead of
"netmask" is unclear. It might be a historical artifact or a naming convention
used by some developers. However, in most modern Linux systems, the term
"netmask" is used instead of "Genmask."
