

apt install p7zip-full -y

7z - A file archiver with high compression ratio format

SYNOPSIS

    7z <command> [<switches>... ] <archive_name> [<file_names>... ] [<@listfiles>... ]


在 centos 中:
    
    [root@localhost ~]# rpm -qa | grep 7z
    p7zip-16.02-20.el7.x86_64                   --> /usr/bin/7za
    p7zip-plugins-16.02-20.el7.x86_64           --> /usr/bin/7z
    p7zip-doc-16.02-20.el7.noarch


## the difference between 7za 7z 7zr

[the difference between 7z 7za 7zr](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/P7zip#Differences_between_7z,_7za_and_7zr_binaries)

1. 7z uses plugins to handle archives.

2. 7za is a stand-alone executable. 7za handles less archive formats than 7z, but
   does not need any others.

3. 7zr is a stand-alone executable. 7zr handles less archive formats than 7z, but
   does not need any others. 
   7zr is a "light-version" of 7za that only handles 7z archives.""


debian 这三个都有，而 centos7 没有 7zr


## COMMAND

a   Add files to archive, 如果这个archive不存在的话则是创建


    1. The supported archive formats for creation are 7z, XZ, GZIP, TAR, ZIP
       and BZIP2. 

    1. If the given archive file exists already, it will “add” the files to an
       existing archive, instead of overwriting it.

    > 7z a hyper.7z hyper_1.4.2_i386.deb


e   Extract files from archive (without using directory names)

    To extract an .7z archive file, use "e" option, which will extract the
    archive in the present working directory.

    > 7z e hyper.7z

x   eXtract files with full paths

b   Benchmark

d   Delete files from archive

u   Update files to archive
    
    the updating of solid .7z archives can be slow, since it can require some
    recompression.

    > 7z u a.7z  services


r   nRename files in archive


--- 

i   Show information about supported formats

l   List contents of archive

    > 7z l hyper.7z

t   Test integrity of archive

    > 7z t hyper.7z

h   Calculate hash values for files


---

1. 7z a 和 7z u 都可以向一个文件中添加文件

    > 7z a a.zip fileN

2. 关于 passwd

    压缩文件1的时候用了密码，然后再向压缩文件中添加文件2
    
    解压的时候文件2直接解压出来，文件1需要输入密码才行

3. 


### SWITCHES

-t{Type}

    Set type of archive

    select the archive format such as zip, gzip, bzip2 or tar (the default is 7z)

    > 7z a -tzip hyper.zip hyper_1.4.2_i386.deb


-si[{name}]

    Read data from stdin (e.g. tar cf - directory | 7z a -si directory.tar.7z)

    > tar -cf - tecmint_files | 7za a -si tecmint_files.tar.7z


-so    Write data to stdout (e.g. 7z x -so directory.tar.7z | tar xf -)

    > 7za x -so tecmint_files.tar.7z | tar xf -


-mx=9  level of compression = 9 (Ultra)

    tar -cf - tecmint_files | 7za a -si -mx=9 tecmint_files.tar.7z


-p{Password}

    Set Password (NOTE: this flag does not work with 7zr)

    > 7za a -p{password_here} tecmint_secrets.tar.7z


-i[r[-|0]]{@listfile|!wildcard}

    Include filenames


-o{Directory}

    Set Output directory
    
    with x option
