# confusing points

There are multiple ways to perform arithmetic operations in a shell script or
in the command line, and the different symbols and syntaxes can be confusing.
Here are some of the most common ways to do arithmetic in shell:

1. `$(( ))`: This syntax is known as arithmetic expansion and is supported by
   most modern shells. It is a way to evaluate arithmetic expressions enclosed
   within double parentheses. For example, echo $((2 + 3)) will output 5.

2. `expr`: This is a command-line utility that evaluates expressions and
   outputs the result to standard output. For example, expr 2 + 3 will output
   5.

3. `let`: This is a built-in shell command that evaluates arithmetic
   expressions.  For example, let result=2+3 will set the variable result to 5.

4. `$[ ]`: This is an older syntax that was used before $(( )) became popular.
   It is similar to $(( )), but the dollar sign and square brackets are used
   instead of parentheses. For example, echo $[2+3] will output 5.

5. `[ ]`: This is not an arithmetic operator, but a test command that can be
   used to evaluate expressions. For example, [ 2 -eq 3  ] will evaluate to
   false.  However, it can also be used for arithmetic operations using the -gt,
   -lt, -eq, and other comparison operators. For example, [ 2 -eq $((1+1))  ]
   will evaluate to true.

As for the confusion around spaces, some of these operators require spaces
between operands and operators, while others do not. For example, $((2+3)) and
expr 2+3 require the operands and operator to be separated by spaces, while let
result=2+3 does not. It is important to be familiar with the syntax of each
operator and to use it correctly to avoid errors.


## [ in shell is a program , but what about  ]

In shell, `[` is also a program, which is actually an alias for the test
command.  The test command evaluates the expression given as an argument and
returns a status code indicating whether the expression is true or false. The
`[` command is the same as test, but it requires the last argument to be  `]`,
which is simply a syntax requirement to close the expression. For example: 

```bash
if [ -d /etc  ]; then
  echo "/etc is a directory"
fi
```

In the above example, the `[` command is used to test whether /etc is a
directory. The expression `-d /etc` checks whether `/etc` exists and is a
directory. The command returns a status code of 0 if the expression is true, or
a non-zero code if it is false. The `if` statement checks the status code and
executes the `echo` command if it is 0. The closing  ] is simply a syntax
requirement to close the expression.

## since there i s $[] , why  $(()) is generated?

**The `$[]` syntax is a deprecated way of performing arithmetic expansion in
Bash.** It was originally used in older versions of Bash but has since been
replaced with the `$(( ))` syntax.

The `$(( ))` syntax is preferred because it is easier to read and it is
consistent with the syntax used in other programming languages. **`$(())` is
also more flexible than `$[]`, as it supports more complex arithmetic
expressions and allows for the use of variables and shell functions.**

Therefore, while `$[]` may still work in some versions of Bash, it is
recommended to use `$(( ))` instead.

## what is the difference of [] and [[]]

In shell scripting, `[]` and `[[]]` are both used for conditional expressions,
but they have some differences.

`[]` is the test command or the test built-in command, which is used for
evaluating expressions that return either a true or false value. **`[]` evaluates
the expression inside the brackets as a string, and performs the comparison
based on the type of expression.** For example, `[]` can be used to check if a
string is empty, if a file exists, or if a number is equal to zero.

`[[]]` is an enhanced version of the `[]` test command, introduced in Bash
version 2.0. **It supports additional features such as pattern matching and
regular expressions.** Unlike `[]`, **`[[` evaluates the expression inside the
brackets as a shell expression, which means it can contain variables and
operators. `[[` also supports logical operators such as `&&` and `||`, which
can be used to combine multiple conditions.**

Here are some examples to illustrate the differences between `[]` and `[[]]`:

```bash
# Using []
if [ -n "$var"  ]; then
    echo "Variable is not empty"
fi

# Using [[]]
if [[ $var =~ [a-z]+ && $var =~ [0-9]+  ]]; then
    echo "Variable contains letters and numbers"
fi
```

In the first example, `[]` is used to check if the variable `var` is not empty.
In the second example, `[[]]` is used to check if the variable `var `contains
both letters and numbers, using regular expressions.

## what is the difference of [] and [[]] and (())

In shell scripting, there are several ways to perform tests or comparisons,
including the use of `[ ]`, `[[ ]]`, and `(( ))`. Here are the differences
between them:

`[ ]`: This is the most basic test construct in shell scripting, and is
essentially a synonym for the test command. It is used to evaluate conditional
expressions and return a true or false result. For example, `[ "$VAR" = "value"
]` will test if the variable $VAR is equal to the string "value". Note that
there must be spaces between the brackets and the expression.

`[[ ]]`: This is an enhanced version of the `[ ]` construct, and is a keyword
rather than a command. It provides more features and flexibility than `[ ]`,
including support for pattern matching, regular expressions, and logical
operators. For example, `[[ "$VAR" == v*  ]]` will test if the variable $VAR
starts with the letter "v". Note that there must be spaces between the double
brackets and the expression.

`(( ))`: This is used for performing arithmetic operations in shell scripting.
It evaluates mathematical expressions and returns a numeric value. For example,
(( x = 5 + 3  )) will set the variable x to 8. Note that there should not be
any spaces between the double parentheses and the expression.

In summary, `[ ]` and `[[ ]]` are used for testing conditional expressions,
while `(( ))` is used for arithmetic operations. `[[ ]]` provides more features
and flexibility than `[ ]`.
