
## iostat  

Synopsis

iostat options [interval] [count]

-x Display extended statistics

-k kilobytes per second
-m megabytes per second



## Reports

The iostat command generates two types of reports, the CPU Utilization report and the Device Utilization report.

CPU Utilization Report
The first report generated by the iostat command is the CPU Utilization Report. For multiprocessor systems, the CPU values
are global averages among all processors.  The report has the following format:

%user
    Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user level (application).

%nice
    Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user level with nice priority.

%system
    Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the system level (kernel).

%iowait
    Show  the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which the system had an outstanding disk I/O re‐
    quest.

%steal
    Show the percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing
    another virtual processor.

%idle
    Show  the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system did not have an outstanding disk I/O re‐
    quest.

Device Utilization Report
    The second report generated by the iostat command is the Device Utilization Report. The device report provides  statistics
    on  a per physical device or partition basis. Block devices and partitions for which statistics are to be displayed may be
    entered on the command line.  If no device nor partition is entered, then statistics are displayed for every  device  used
    by  the  system,  and  providing  that the kernel maintains statistics for it.  If the ALL keyword is given on the command
    line, then statistics are displayed for every device defined by the system, including those that  have  never  been  used.
    Transfer  rates  are  shown in 1K blocks by default, unless the environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, in which case
    512-byte blocks are used.  The report may show the following fields, depending on the flags used:

Device:
    This column gives the device (or partition) name as listed in the /dev directory.

tps
    Indicate the number of transfers per second that were issued to the device. A transfer is an I/O request to the de‐
    vice.  Multiple logical requests can be combined into a single I/O request to the device. A transfer is of indeter‐
    minate size.

Blk_read/s (kB_read/s, MB_read/s)
    Indicate the amount of data read from the device expressed in a number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per second.
    Blocks are equivalent to sectors and therefore have a size of 512 bytes.

Blk_wrtn/s (kB_wrtn/s, MB_wrtn/s)
    Indicate  the  amount of data written to the device expressed in a number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per sec‐
    ond.

Blk_read (kB_read, MB_read)
    The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) read.

Blk_wrtn (kB_wrtn, MB_wrtn)
    The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) written.

    r/s
    The number (after merges) of read requests completed per second for the device.

    w/s
    The number (after merges) of write requests completed per second for the device.

sec/s (kB/s, MB/s)
    The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) read from or written to the device per second.

rsec/s (rkB/s, rMB/s)
    The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) read from the device per second.

wsec/s (wkB/s, wMB/s)
    The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) written to the device per second.

rqm/s
    The number of I/O requests merged per second that were queued to the device.

rrqm/s
    The number of read requests merged per second that were queued to the device.

wrqm/s
    The number of write requests merged per second that were queued to the device.

%rrqm
    The percentage of read requests merged together before being sent to the device.

%wrqm
    The percentage of write requests merged together before being sent to the device.

areq-sz
    The average size (in kilobytes) of the I/O requests that were issued to the device.
    Note: In previous versions, this field was known as avgrq-sz and was expressed in sectors.

rareq-sz
    The average size (in kilobytes) of the read requests that were issued to the device.

wareq-sz
    The average size (in kilobytes) of the write requests that were issued to the device.

await
    The average time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests issued to the device to be served. This includes the time spent
    by the requests in queue and the time spent servicing them.

r_await
    The  average  time  (in  milliseconds)  for read requests issued to the device to be served. This includes the time
    spent by the requests in queue and the time spent servicing them.

w_await
    The average time (in milliseconds) for write requests issued to the device to be served.  This  includes  the  time
    spent by the requests in queue and the time spent servicing them.

aqu-sz
    The average queue length of the requests that were issued to the device.
    Note: In previous versions, this field was known as avgqu-sz.

svctm
    The  average  service time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests that were issued to the device. Warning! Do not trust
    this field any more.  This field will be removed in a future sysstat version.

%util
    Percentage of elapsed time during which I/O requests were issued to the device (bandwidth utilization for  the  de‐
    vice).  Device  saturation  occurs when this value is close to 100% for devices serving requests serially.  But for
    devices serving requests in parallel, such as RAID arrays and modern SSDs, this number does not reflect their  per‐
    formance limits.






