## [9.2.1. pfifo_fast](https://www.lartc.org/howto/lartc.qdisc.classless.html)

This queue is, as the name says, First In, First Out, which means that no
packet receives special treatment. At least, not quite.

This queue has 3 so called 'bands'(范围，段；带). Within each band, FIFO rules      // 翻译成频带,波段也ok吧, 都是一段段的, 有优先级
apply. However, as long as there are packets waiting in band 0, band 1 won't be
processed. Same goes for band 1 and band 2.

The kernel honors(尊重,翻译成按照规定办事) the so called Type of Service flag
of packets, and takes care to insert 'minimum delay' packets in band 0.

Do not confuse this classless simple qdisc with the classful PRIO one! Although
they behave similarly, **pfifo_fast is classless and you cannot add other qdiscs
to it with the tc command.**

## 9.2.1.1. Parameters & usage

You can't configure the pfifo_fast qdisc as it is the hardwired default. This
is how it is configured by default:

1. ipriomap

    Determines how packet priorities, as assigned by the kernel, map to bands.
    确定由内核分配的包优先级如何映射到频带

    Mapping occurs based on the TOS octet(/ɑːkˈtet/八重奏，八重唱,八位字节) of      // 8bit, 八位字节并不是8Bytes,而是 eight bit byte
    the packet, which looks like this:

|     0     1     2     3     4     5     6     7
|  +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|  |                 |                       |     |
|  |   PRECEDENCE    |          TOS          | MBZ |
|  |                 |                       |     |
|  +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


    The four TOS bits (the 'TOS field') are defined as:

    Binary Decimcal  Meaning
    -----------------------------------------
    1000   8         Minimize delay             (md)
    0100   4         Maximize throughput        (mt)
    0010   2         Maximize reliability       (mr)
    0001   1         Minimize monetary cost     (mmc)       /ˈmɑːnɪteri/货币的，金融的
    0000   0         Normal Service

    As there is 1 bit to the right of these four bits, the actual value of the
    TOS field is double the value of the TOS bits.

    Tcpdump -v -v shows you the value of the entire TOS field, not just the             // tcpdump -vvv | grep tos
    four bits. It is the value you see in the first column of this table:

|       TOS     Bits  Means                    Linux Priority    Band
|       ------------------------------------------------------------
|       0x0     0     Normal Service           0 Best Effort     1
|       0x2     1     Minimize Monetary Cost   1 Filler          2
|       0x4     2     Maximize Reliability     0 Best Effort     1
|       0x6     3     mmc+mr                   0 Best Effort     1
|       0x8     4     Maximize Throughput      2 Bulk            2
|       0xa     5     mmc+mt                   2 Bulk            2
|       0xc     6     mr+mt                    2 Bulk            2
|       0xe     7     mmc+mr+mt                2 Bulk            2
|       0x10    8     Minimize Delay           6 Interactive     0
|       0x12    9     mmc+md                   6 Interactive     0
|       0x14    10    mr+md                    6 Interactive     0
|       0x16    11    mmc+mr+md                6 Interactive     0
|       0x18    12    mt+md                    4 Int. Bulk       1
|       0x1a    13    mmc+mt+md                4 Int. Bulk       1
|       0x1c    14    mr+mt+md                 4 Int. Bulk       1
|       0x1e    15    mmc+mr+mt+md             4 Int. Bulk       1


    The second column contains the value of the relevant four TOS bits,
    followed by their translated meaning. For example, 15 stands for a packet
    wanting Minimal Monetary Cost, Maximum Reliability, Maximum Throughput AND
    Minimum Delay. I would call this a 'Dutch Packet'.

    The fourth column lists the way the Linux kernel interprets the TOS bits,
    by showing to which Priority they are mapped.

    The last column shows the result of the default priomap. On the command
    line, the default priomap looks like this:

        1, 2, 2, 2, 1, 2, 0, 0 , 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1             // 16个

    This means that priority 4, for example, gets mapped to band number 1. The
    priomap also allows you to list higher priorities (> 7) which do not
    correspond to TOS mappings, but which are set by other means.

    This table from RFC 1349 (read it for more details) tells you how
    applications might very well set their TOS bits:


2. txqueuelen((Transmit Queue/kjuː/ Lenght))

    The length of this queue is gleaned(/ɡliːn/收集) from the interface
    configuration, which you can see and set with ifconfig and ip. To set the
    queue length to 10, execute: ifconfig eth0 txqueuelen 10

    You can't set this parameter with tc!

    1. show txqueuelen:

        > ifconfig | grep txqueuelen
        
        In my debian, it is default 1000, 

    2. set:

        > ifconfig ens1f0 txqueuelen 10000
        
        > ip link set ens1f0 txqueuelen 10000

    [link](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/change-txqueuelen/)
    The **txqueuelen** set up the length of the transmit queue (qdisc) of the
    device.

    Typically we set up small values for slower network interfaces with high
    latency.

    If packets are dropping, then we set up large values for NIC.

    Of course, you need to test your setup with various values.
