
# [9.2.3. Stochastic Fairness Queueing](https://www.lartc.org/howto/lartc.qdisc.classless.html#LARTC.SFQ)

Stochastic(/ stəˈkæstɪk; stoʊˈkæstɪk/随机的) Fairness Queueing (SFQ) is a
simple implementation of the fair queueing algorithms family. It's less
accurate than others, but it also requires less calculations while being almost
perfectly fair.

The key word in SFQ is **conversation (or flow)**, which mostly corresponds to
a TCP session or a UDP stream. Traffic is divided into a pretty large number of
FIFO queues, one for each conversation.

Traffic is then sent in a round robin fashion, giving each session the chance
to send data in turn.
然后以循环方式发送流量

**This leads to very fair behaviour and disallows any single conversation from
drowning out(淹没，压过) the rest.** 

SFQ is called 'Stochastic' because it doesn't really allocate a queue for each
session, it has an algorithm which divides traffic over a limited number of
queues using a hashing algorithm.

Because of the hash, multiple sessions might end up in the same bucket, which       // 多个不同的会话会分到同一个bucket
would halve(/ hæv /（使）减半；把……分成两半，对半分；均摊) each session's
chance of sending a packet, thus halving the effective speed available. To
prevent this situation from becoming noticeable, SFQ changes its hashing
algorithm quite often so that any two colliding(/kəˈlaɪdɪŋ/冲突) sessions will
only do so for a small number of seconds.

It is important to note that **SFQ is only useful in case your actual outgoing
interface is really full!** If it isn't then there will be no queue on your
linux machine and hence no effect. Later on we will describe how to combine SFQ
with other qdiscs to get a best-of-both worlds situation.

Specifically, setting SFQ on the ethernet interface heading to your cable modem
or DSL router is pointless without further shaping!

## 9.2.3.1. Parameters & usage

The SFQ is pretty much self tuning:

1. perturb

    Reconfigure hashing once this many seconds. If unset, hash will never be
    reconfigured. Not recommended. 10 seconds is probably a good value.

2. quantum

    Amount of bytes a stream is allowed to dequeue before the next queue gets a
    turn. Defaults to 1 maximum sized packet (MTU-sized). Do not set below the
    MTU!

3. limit

    The total number of packets that will be queued by this SFQ (after that it
    starts dropping them).


## 9.2.3.2. Sample configuration

If you have a device which has identical link speed and actual available rate,
like a phone modem, this configuration will help promote fairness:

    > tc qdisc add dev ppp0 root sfq perturb 10
    > tc -s -d qdisc ls

    qdisc sfq 800c: dev ppp0 quantum 1514b limit 128p flows 128/1024 perturb 10sec 
     Sent 4812 bytes 62 pkts (dropped 0, overlimits 0) 


 The number 800c: is the automatically assigned handle number,

 limit means that 128 packets can wait in this queue.

 There are 1024 hashbuckets available for accounting, of which 128 can be               // hashbuckets, is just flows
 active at a time (no more packets fit in the queue!) Once every 10 seconds,            // ???
 the hashes are reconfigured.


