# what is realmd

realmd is a tool for configuring authentication and domain membership on Linux
systems. It is designed to make it easier to join Linux hosts to an Active
Directory (AD) domain or a Kerberos realm. It works by abstracting the complex
configuration steps needed to join a domain or realm, providing a simple
command-line interface and a set of configuration files that can be easily
modified.

With realmd, users can easily join Linux hosts to an AD domain or a Kerberos
realm, and configure authentication and authorization using the users and
groups defined in the domain or realm. It can also be used to manage keytab
files, which are used to authenticate users and services against the domain or
realm.

Realmd supports a range of authentication mechanisms, including Kerberos, LDAP,
and SMB, and can be used to configure a wide range of Linux-based systems, from
servers to desktops and laptops. It is also designed to work well with other
authentication and identity management tools, such as SSSD and FreeIPA.

realmd is a system daemon and a command-line tool that simplifies the
configuration of network authentication and domain membership. It provides a
simple and consistent way to discover and join identity and authentication
domains, such as Active Directory or LDAP, and **it also configures underlying
Linux system services like SSSD or Winbind.**

realmd simplifies the configuration of network authentication and domain
membership for various directory services.

realmd is a command-line tool that simplifies the process of joining a Linux
system to an Active Directory domain. It does this by automating the
configuration of the necessary system files, including PAM, NSS, and SSSD, and
provides a simple command-line interface for joining a domain. It also supports
features like automatic discovery of domains and configuration of trust
relationships between domains. realmd is designed to work specifically with
Active Directory and is available on several Linux distributions, including Red
Hat Enterprise Linux and CentOS.

realmd is a more specialized tool that simplifies the process of joining a
Linux system to an Active Directory domain.

---

By default, realm will set the search base for user objects to cn=Users,dc=ad,
dc=cn. However, it is possible that your Active Directory setup uses a
different search base.

---

In addition to joining the domain using realm, you also need to configure the Name Service Switch (NSS) and Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) to use the Active Directory domain as a source of user and group information. This can be done using tools such as SSSD or LDAP, as we previously discussed.

Once the NSS and PAM configuration is complete, you should be able to
authenticate and authorize Linux users against the Active Directory domain, and
commands like id user@ad.cn should return the expected results.
